>> Kyle Simpson: There is
a temptation to believe, and
it's sort of a cult feeling
among the community,
most developers tend to think that
implicit mechanisms are magical.
That when something happens underneath
the scenes, and it wasn't obvious,
then it's some sort of magic.
And we tend to equate magic with bad,
evil,
like this is not good because I
can't understand what's happening.
And this is a predominant reason
why that anti-coercion prospective
exists is because people feel like the
implicitness of coercion is the downfall
where they point to explicitness of type
casting in something like Java or C++.
And then they say,
you would never automatically convert
an integer into a float or whatever.
But JavaScript does all this sort of
automatic stuff and then they say, well,
that's a weakness of JavaScript
because it's magical and bad.
I don't think it's either of those things,
I think that we should think about
implicitness as abstraction.
Not all abstractions are good, but
some abstractions are necessary.
Implicitness, and we're not dealing
with functional programming here.
This is not this course,
that's a different course.
Here's a plug, you can check on
my functional programming course.
But within functional programming,
you use abstraction all over the place.
And it turns out that the declarative
style of coding is actually more implicit.
So implicitness is not bad,
it is the proper usage of obstruction.
In other words, we want to hide
key unnecessary details, why?
Because that re-focuses the reader
on the important stuff.
We're not distracting them with
the stuff that they don't need.
We wanna focus them.
We wanna increase the clarity
of the code by re-focusing.
So some of the implicit nature of
JavaScript's type system is sketchy,
but some of it is quite useful.
For example, the boxing.
That's implicit, but also very useful,
because the distraction of having to
cast it into an object isn't,
what I would argue in most cases,
an unnecessary detail that
the reader doesn't need.
And that's actually at
the DNA of JavaScript.
Part of the reason JavaScript
has such a low barrier to entry
is because it doesn't force the reader to
deal with a bunch of unnecessary detail.
It betrays JavaScript's DNA to
suggest that all those implicit
things are things that we should avoid.
>> Kyle Simpson: So here, if I'm writing
string to make it super obvious that I'm
gonna make this thing into a string,
I don't know, I think that's distracting.
I think I would just
drop in the number and
be perfectly happy, because I know that
number is never in any of those corner
cases where something could be weird.
Maybe I've already checked to make sure
that num students is not nan, for example.
All the other numbers that it could
possibly be other than negative zero and
nan, those are my only corner cases
that I need to worry about here.
So if I have if statements that deal with
those corner cases, then this line of
code, line 4, is actually better
communication, cuz it properly lets
JavaScript abstract the detail that's not
necessary to deal with at that moment.
Here's another example,
the less than operator,
we talked about how it
coerces things into numbers.
Sometimes you wanna go ahead and
make sure that both of them are a number
so that you don't get something weird.
For example, if both of them are strings,
it doesn't turn them both into numbers.
The less than operator does
an alphanumeric comparison.
So there's a corner case, if you could
possibly have a less than applied to two
strings, you probably do wanna make
sure that they're both numbers first.
But if I'm in a place of the code
where I know at least one of them is
definitely a number?
Well then, I know the other one's gonna
become a number, so maybe it's not
necessary to force you to read the fact
that I'm making them both numbers.
Maybe it's okay, to let that less
than operator do the coercion form.
These are not hard and fast rules,
these are trying to train you
to think like this to analyze.
And if you are in a place where you
have the choice to use coercion but
it's not obvious, it's within
your purview to make it obvious.
Make it obvious that
they're both numbers and
therefore, I don't need to worry
about explicitly casting them.
It's just already obvious
that they're both numbers.
If you communicate that intent, it's not
gonna trip up other readers of the code.
>> Kyle Simpson: Really, the question is,
is showing these extra details
helpful to the reader or not?
Sometimes yes, sometimes no.
>> Kyle Simpson: Basically, I'm asking
you to be critical, analytical thinkers,
to be an engineer and
not a code monkey, okay?